# dog_breed
Detect the breed of the dog in the image provided and if it's a human image, the app returns the resembling dog breed.

### Summary
This app detects if an image is of a human or a dog and returns the dog breed corresponding to the image path submitted by the user. If it's a human image, the app returns to which breed the person has more similarity.

To detect the dog breed a convolutional neural network was adopted: It consists mainly of conv2D and MaxPooling2D layers.  
The CNN was trained on a database  from sklearn containing 113 dog breeds.Once the accuracy obtained was higher than 80%, the best model weights were saved to a 'weights.best.Resnet50.hdf5' file.  
The function developed for this app showed satsfying results in predicting dogs breeds, however, when testing it on human faces, it appears that it relies on the hair coloring to make the prediction. As an improvement, it would be interesting to compare human faces based on the distance between the face features. 

### Libraries used
numpy, pandas, nltk, sklearn, flask, json, c2, sqlite3, tqdm, glob
## Files in this repository
- Webapp.py:  the main file with the code for the CNN model and all the functions needed
- extract_bottlneck_features.py : python file containing the code to extract the bottleneck features for 4 models(VGG-19, ResNet-50, Inception, Xception)
- haarcascade_frontalface_alt: contains the pre-trained face detector data
- weights.best.Resnet50.hdf5: Once the model trained with resnet50 the best model weights are saved to this file
### HTML files:
- go.html : HTML code needed to return the breed classification of the image entrered by the user.
- master.html: HTML code for the design of the web app.
### Files specific to a  heroku webapp 
- Procfile: This file is needed for heroku as it will indicates what to run first.
- requirements.txt: this file is generated by the command pip freeze requirements and it's needed if the webapp is created with heroku
## Run the web app:
- All the steps required to create the web app are executed from the command window. 

### Link: 
https://github.com/fabenp/dog_breed


